# **Amped Finance Whitepaper**

## **Introduction**

Amped DeFi (Amped Finance) is a decentralized perpetual and spot trading
platform derived from the battle-tested GMX v1 protocol. Building on
GMX\'s proven architecture, Amped introduces multiple enhancements to
push the DeFi trading experience to the next level. Key improvements
include an enhanced user experience with near-instant, gasless
transactions via deployment on Layer-2 networks, a broader selection of
supported assets within its liquidity pool, and AI-driven features for
intelligent liquidity management and automated trading. By combining a
robust on-chain derivatives exchange with innovative yield optimization
tools (for users to self-administer their digital assets), Amped aims to
serve a variety of less sophisticated and more sophisticated/active
users pursuing leveraged strategies, all under one ecosystem.

Amped\'s core design leverages a single unified liquidity pool -- the
Amped Liquidity Pool (ALP) -- that underpins all trades (similar to
GMX\'s GLP model). Liquidity providers receive ALP tokens representing
their share of the pool, earning a portion of protocol revenues for
their contributions of providing liquidity to facilitate swaps. Amped
extends this model by introducing yALP, a yield-bearing vault that
automatically compounds rewards for ALP holders based on their
self-selected strategies, further lowering the barriers for users. The
platform\'s native token AMPED is central to governance and incentive
alignment, enabling holders to stake to participate in various features
of the platform and receive rewards for active engagement. With a
forward-looking roadmap that integrates artificial intelligence
components, Amped is positioning itself as a \"DeFi + AI\" (DeFAI)
platform that not only replicates GMX\'s success but also introduces
automated intelligence to optimize liquidity and assist user trading
decisions.

This whitepaper outlines Amped\'s vision, system architecture, key
features, the yALP vault, token utility, planned AI enhancements,
roadmap, and security considerations.

## **Vision**

Amped\'s vision is to create a next-generation DeFi protocol that
harmoniously blends advanced trading capabilities, yield/reward
opportunities, and AI-driven intelligence. By forking and refining GMX
v1, Amped seeks to democratize access to sophisticated trading and yield
strategies in a fully on-chain, transparent manner. The platform is
designed to cater to both crypto-native users and institutional
participants:

**For Active Traders:** Amped provides a high-performance perpetual swap
exchange with up to 10x leverage, zero price-impact swaps, and
user-friendly features like limit orders. The goal is to empower traders
with deep liquidity and reliable execution on a range of assets, while
eventually augmenting their experience with AI-powered trading
assistants for better decision-making and risk management.

**For Liquidity Providers:** Amped offers robust incentives for
providing liquidity. Through the ALP pool and the novel yALP vault, even
long-term digital asset holders can earn attractive, auto-compounding
yields from trading fees and rewards by supporting liquidity/trades. The
vision is a \"set-and-forget\" DeFi yield instrument that maximizes
returns without constant micromanagement. This appeals to long-term
holders and institutions looking for stable, transparent yield in the
crypto space.

**AI Integration:** A defining aspect of Amped\'s vision is the
integration of AI into DeFi, hence \"DeFAI.\" Future iterations of the
protocol plan to leverage AI for dynamic liquidity management (ensuring
the asset mix in pools adapts to market conditions) and for automated
agent-driven trading on behalf of users. This will bridge the gap
between traditional quantitative strategies and decentralized finance,
making advanced tools accessible to all users. Ultimately, Amped
envisions an autonomous, self-optimizing ecosystem -- one that remains
automated, composable, and efficient as DeFi evolves.

In summary, Amped strives to become an all-in-one DeFi platform where
users can trade, earn, and govern in a secure, innovative environment.
By prioritizing user experience, expanding asset support, and embracing
emerging technologies like AI, Amped\'s vision is to redefine on-chain
trading and liquidity provision for the next era of decentralized
finance.

## **Architecture**

Amped\'s architecture builds upon the GMX v1 design, featuring a pooled
liquidity AMM (Automated Market Maker) optimized for both spot swaps and
derivatives trading. The core components of the system include:

### **Amped Liquidity Pool (ALP)**

A single, aggregated liquidity pool that supports all trading on the
platform. ALP functions as an index of whitelisted assets on each
deployment, and it acts as the counterparty to traders\' positions.
Liquidity providers deposit various index assets (such as major
cryptocurrencies, wrapped tokens, and stablecoins) into the pool and
mint ALP tokens in return. The total value of ALP is used to backstop
trades: when traders profit, the pool pays out (decreasing ALP\'s
value), and when traders lose, the pool gains the difference. This
design enables zero price impact swapping among index assets and
efficient leveraged trading, as pricing is determined by external
oracles rather than an order book.

### **Advanced Liquidity Management**

The ALP pool employs sophisticated rebalancing mechanisms that adapt to
market conditions:

**Bull Market Optimization:** During upward trending markets, the system
reduces exposure to stablecoins and increases allocation to appreciating
assets. This allows liquidity providers to benefit from the overall
market growth while maintaining sufficient stability for trading
operations. The AI-driven system monitors momentum indicators, volume
patterns, and volatility metrics to determine optimal asset weightings.

**Bear Market Protection:** In declining markets, the protocol
automatically increases stablecoin exposure and reduces volatile asset
allocation. This defensive positioning protects the pool from excessive
drawdowns while ensuring adequate liquidity for increased hedging demand
during market stress. The system can detect trend reversals early
through sentiment analysis and on-chain activity monitoring.

**Dynamic Fee Adjustment:** The protocol implements real-time fee
adjustments based on asset utilization and market conditions.
High-demand assets may see increased fees to encourage arbitrage and
rebalancing, while underutilized assets receive fee discounts to
stimulate trading volume.

### **Multichain Deployment**

Amped is omnichain -- it is deployed across multiple networks, each with
its own ALP instance and supported asset set. Each chain\'s ALP is
independent but follows the same index mechanism. Cross-chain bridges
are planned to allow seamless transfer of liquidity and unified user
experience across chains. This multichain architecture broadens the
asset selection and user base, tapping into liquidity on various
ecosystems while maintaining consistent protocol functionality
everywhere.

### **Pricing Oracles**

As with GMX, Amped utilizes trusted price oracles to determine the fair
market value of assets for swaps and leverage positions. Relying on
oracle price feeds ensures traders get accurate pricing with minimal
slippage and prevents manipulation of in-pool asset ratios. All trades
and collateral valuations are executed at oracle-determined prices,
offering traders low fees and zero price impact. This oracle-driven
pricing is central to the platform\'s risk management, as it isolates
trading from direct market liquidity constraints.

### **Perpetual Trading Engine**

Amped\'s smart contracts support perpetual futures (swap contracts with
no expiry) with up to 10x leverage. Under the hood, this involves margin
accounts backed by the ALP pool, collateral requirements, and position
PnL (Profit/Loss) calculation based on price changes. When a user opens
a leveraged long or short, the collateral is held and the position size
is \"borrowed\" from the pool\'s liquidity. The system continuously
marks positions to market via oracles. If a position\'s losses approach
the collateral, it is liquidated to protect the pool. This mechanism,
inherited from GMX, ensures the ALP pool remains solvent while offering
traders high leverage with transparent on-chain execution.

### **Reward Distribution Mechanism**

All trading fees (from swaps, leverage open/close, and liquidations) are
collected by the protocol and periodically distributed to stakeholders.
A portion of fees (traditionally 70%) goes to liquidity providers (ALP
stakers), and the rest (30%) to active users which engage with the
platform (e.g. for trading). Fees are distributed in key assets and as
escrowed tokens (esAMP) which vest into real AMPED over time. This aligns
incentives by rewarding all contribution which is beneficial for the
ecosystem, such as liquidity provision, governance participation and
engaging in trades or participating in platform campaigns.

### **yALP Vault Integration**

Uniquely, Amped\'s architecture includes the yALP vault which sits atop
ALP. Liquidity providers have the option to deposit their ALP tokens
into the yALP vault. Internally, yALP stakes the ALP and automatically
compounds the rewards back into more ALP based on strategy(ies) composed
by the user. The vault token (yALP) represents a user\'s share of the
staked-and-compounding ALP pool, following the ERC-4626 standard for
tokenized vaults. This integration means that the yield-generating
strategy (auto-compounding) is abstracted into a separate contract
module, improving modularity and composability.

### **User Interface and Experience**

Amped places emphasis on a streamlined user experience. The front-end
dApp supports intuitive interactions for both trading and liquidity
provision, including advanced order types and comprehensive dashboards
for tracking positions and rewards. Deploying on efficient Layer-2
networks allows Amped to offer a nearly gas-free trading experience for
end users, significantly lowering friction for frequent traders.
Additionally, Amped provides features like a referral program and
leaderboards for community engagement, as well as mobile app support.

## **Key Features**

Amped offers a rich feature set designed to improve upon the GMX v1
experience and provide additional value to users and liquidity
providers:

### **Perpetual Swaps with 10x Leverage**

Traders can open long or short positions on a variety of supported
assets with up to 10x leverage. Amped supports on-chain perpetual
futures, allowing users to margin trade directly from their wallets with
low fees and no intermediaries. Position management tools (such as
setting stop-loss or take-profit orders) are available, and advanced
order types (limit orders) are integrated for better control over trade
execution. This makes Amped a powerful venue for experienced traders
seeking on-chain leverage.

### **Spot Trading with No Price Impact**

Users can swap between major assets using the ALP pool as counterparty,
incurring zero price impact even for large trades. The swap interface is
akin to a traditional DEX but without thin liquidity concerns -- as long
as the ALP pool holds the assets, trades execute at oracle price plus a
small swap fee. This is ideal for those who want to trade or rebalance
portfolios without worrying about slippage.

### **Deep and Diverse Liquidity Pool**

The ALP token represents an index of assets, and Amped supports a
broader array of collateral assets than the original GMX on a per-chain
basis. This multi-asset support allows the protocol to capture trading
volume across multiple markets and provides LPs a way to earn yield on
diverse assets. It also distributes risk across a wider basket,
potentially making ALP more resilient. Amped\'s pool parameters are
calibrated to maintain balanced exposure and incentivize deposits of
needed assets, ensuring deep liquidity for popular trading pairs.

### **Enhanced User Experience**

Amped introduces several user-experience improvements. By launching on
cost-efficient low latency networks, it leverages fast finality and low
transaction costs. The interface is designed for clarity, with separate
dashboards for trading and earning, real-time updates on PnL and yields,
and an easy workflow for bridging assets to supported chains. Whether
one is a DeFi novice or an institutional trader, the platform aims to
provide a smooth and professional experience.

### **Rewards and Staking Program**

Amped\'s tokenomics ensure that active participants are rewarded.
Liquidity providers who hold ALP (or yALP) earn 70% of all trading fees,
distributed in network base assets and in escrowed AMPED tokens. The
remaining 30% of protocol fees are set aside in the reward program to
reward all contribution which is beneficial for the ecosystem, such as
governance participation and engaging in trades or participating in
platform campaigns, referral programs. This dual reward system means
both liquidity providers and other ecosystem participants benefit from
the platform\'s growth. Additionally, users who stake accumulate esAMP
(escrowed AMPED) which can be staked to provide liquidity, for additional
rewards or vested into real AMPED over time -- incentivizing loyalty and
long-term alignment.

### **yALP -- Auto-Compounding Yield Vault**

A standout feature of Amped is the yALP vault (Yield-bearing ALP), which
is a smart vault that automatically re-allocates ALP rewards for users
based on their self-selected strategies. Liquidity providers can deposit
their ALP tokens into yALP and receive yALP tokens (ERC-20) in return.
Under the hood, the vault stakes the ALP and periodically harvests all
accumulated rewards and compounds them by buying more ALP. This
continuous compounding maximizes the LP\'s yield via the power of
interest-on-interest. The vault is compliant with EIP-4626, the
tokenized vault standard, ensuring a standard interface for easy
integration with other protocols.

### **Governance and Decentralization**

Amped is designed to evolve into a community-governed protocol. The AMPED
token empowers holders with governance rights to propose and vote on
changes such as adding new assets, adjusting fee parameters, or
initiating new features. Through a combination of on-chain voting and
advisory input from the community, Amped aims to progressively
decentralize control over the platform. This ensures that the
platform\'s development aligns with the interests of its users and token
holders.

### **Security and Audits**

Amped places heavy emphasis on security. All smart contracts are forked
from GMX\'s audited codebase with minimal modifications and have
undergone full security audits by reputable firms. The introduction of
new components are likewise subjected to rigorous testing and auditing.
The protocol includes safeguards such as reentrancy guards, oracle
sanity checks, and rate limits on certain operations to mitigate
attacks.

## **yALP Vault: Yield-Bearing Auto-Compounding ALP**

One of Amped\'s innovative enhancements is yALP, a yield-bearing vault
that revolutionizes how liquidity providers earn on the platform.

### **Concept and Mechanism**

yALP is essentially a smart vault that wraps ALP into an
interest-accruing token. When a user deposits ALP tokens into the vault,
they receive yALP tokens in exchange, which represent a share of the
vault\'s assets. Internally, the vault stakes the deposited ALP and
takes over the process of claiming and compounding rewards on behalf of
the user. Instead of the user manually claiming trading fees and
escrowed tokens and then buying more ALP, the vault automates this
entire cycle. The result is that the amount of ALP backing each yALP
token grows over time. The exchange rate between yALP and underlying ALP
increases with each compound event and never decreases -- meaning yALP
steadily appreciates against ALP as yields are accumulated and
re-allocated based on the user's self-selected strategies.

### **EIP-4626 Standard Compliance**

yALP adheres to the ERC-4626 tokenized vault standard. This compliance
brings several advantages:

**Composability:** Any other DeFi protocol that recognizes the EIP-4626
interface can easily integrate yALP. For example, yALP tokens could
potentially be used as collateral in lending platforms or be added to
yield aggregators, broadening their utility.

**Standardized Functions:** The vault exposes familiar methods like
deposit(), withdraw(), totalAssets(), and conversion functions between
shares (yALP) and assets (ALP), making it straightforward for developers
and auditors to understand the vault\'s behavior.

**Predictable Accounting:** The standard enforces precise mathematical
relationships between the shares and underlying assets, ensuring fair
and transparent accounting that users can trust.

### **Key Benefits for Liquidity Providers**

**Hands-Off Compounding (\"Set and Forget\"):** Once ALP is deposited
into yALP, the vault\'s keeper bot automatically harvests and
re-allocates rewards on a regular schedule based on the user's
self-selected strategies. Trading fee distributions and earned esAMP are
periodically claimed and converted back into additional ALP in the
vault. This means the LP\'s position grows continuously without any
manual actions. It alleviates the need for users to monitor and
re-allocate rewards, which can be time-consuming and easy to miss. The
auto-compounding unleashes the power of compound interest, especially
valuable for long-term providers.

**Operational Efficiency:** The vault consolidates compounding into a
single aggregated transaction for all participants, rather than each
user compounding individually. This reduces overall gas costs and
overhead, and ensures even small holders get the same effective
compounding rate as large holders.

**Transferable Liquidity (Liquidity Unlocked):** Traditional staked ALP
in the base protocol is generally not transferable. In contrast, yALP
tokens are standard ERC-20 tokens that are freely transferable. This is
a game-changer for liquidity providers: they can move their yALP
position between wallets, sell or trade yALP on exchanges, or use yALP
as collateral in other protocols. If a user wants to exit their ALP
position quickly without waiting for cooldown periods, they could sell
yALP to someone else.

**Transparent Tracking and Fair Accounting:** yALP provides transparency
tools so users can monitor and administer their digital assets. The
vault exposes data like the current exchange rate (ALP per yALP), so
users always know the value of their holdings. The vault\'s share
accounting is designed with fairness and anti-exploitation in mind -- it
uses the state before a deposit to calculate new shares, preventing
dilution or sandwich attacks.

**Secondary Market Price Discovery:** Because yALP is tradable, an
interesting dynamic emerges -- the market will price yALP based on its
intrinsic value and expected future yield. Traders could arbitrage
between minting/burning ALP via the vault and buying/selling yALP on the
open market. This helps ensure yALP trades near its fair value and adds
liquidity for LPs.

### **Technical Implementation Highlights**

The yALP vault is carefully implemented to maintain security and
efficiency alongside Amped\'s core contracts. The vault integrates with
existing contracts and observes cooldown rules to prevent quick
in-and-out exploits. A keeper bot triggers the compound function
periodically, performing the steps of claiming all accumulated rewards,
then redepositing those rewards to mint more ALP for the vault. Security
features include protections like reentrancy guards on state-changing
functions, and pre-deposit share calculation to prevent manipulation.

## **AMPED Token Utility and Governance**

The AMPED token is the native governance and utility token of the Amped
DeFi ecosystem. Modeled after the GMX token in functionality, AMPED plays
a pivotal role in aligning incentives across traders, liquidity
providers, and the protocol\'s future development.

### **Governance Rights**

AMPED is fundamentally a governance token, conferring holders the ability
to influence the direction of the platform. AMPED holders can vote on
proposals or parameter changes, such as adjusting fee distribution
percentages, onboarding new collateral assets into ALP, modifying
leverage limits, or initiating partnerships and upgrades. In time, Amped
plans to transition into a more community-driven DAO structure where
significant changes are decided through on-chain governance votes by AMPED
stakeholders.

### **Reward Distribution**

One of the primary utilities of AMPED is staking. Users can stake their
AMPED tokens in the protocol as a base asset to participate in the
platform and provide liquidity to support swaps of digital assets.
Notably, AMPED stakers may also be required to perform a specific task
within a \'work for service\' model to claim their earned rewards, such
as such as liquidity provision, governance participation and engaging in
trades or participating in platform campaigns, referral programs. These
earned rewards are distributed in the form of:

**Platform Fee Rewards:** AMPED stakers receive rewards from the pool that
contains a variety of network base currencies. The rewards pool is
funded by swap fees, leverage trading fees, and other protocol revenues.
Essentially, by participating in Amped, one can earn rewards denominated
in major assets, providing a stream of rewards based on their engagement
with the platform.

**Escrowed AMPED (esAMP):** In addition to immediate fee rewards,
qualifying stakers who have fulfilled engagement criteria are granted
escrowed AMPED tokens (esAMP) as a loyalty reward. esAMP is a
non-transferable token that represents a claim on real AMPED tokens, but
it vests over time. Earning esAMP incentivizes long-term participation:
users must continue to stake or hold to eventually convert (vest) the
esAMP into liquid AMPED. Alternatively, esAMP itself can be staked to earn
additional rewards. This mechanism prevents mercenary behavior by tying
rewards to time, and gradually increases the circulating supply of AMPED
in a controlled way.

### **Liquidity Incentives and ALP Integration**

Liquidity providers (ALP holders) also indirectly benefit from the AMPED
tokenomics. ALP stakers receive a portion of fees and also earn esAMP
rewards. This means that liquidity providers are being given a stake in
governance over time, turning them into AMPED holders as well. It creates
a pipeline where LPs who might start for the yield eventually become
vested AMPED holders, further aligning LP incentives with the long-term
governance and success of Amped.

### **Utility in the Ecosystem**

Beyond governance and staking, AMPED is envisioned to have additional
utility within the Amped ecosystem:

**Fee Discounts or Preferred Rates:** The platform may introduce tiered
benefits for AMPED holders, such as reduced trading fees or improved
referral rates for those holding or staking certain amounts of AMPED.

**Access to Features:** AMPED might gate certain advanced features or
higher platform tiers. For example, participation in special yield
programs, higher leverage tiers, or early access to new chain
deployments could be offered to AMPED holders.

**Collateral or Integration:** As Amped expands, AMPED could potentially
be used as a collateral asset or integrated into partner protocols. Its
role as a governance token and claim on fees gives it a fundamental
value that other protocols may accept.

**Activity Rewards:** Contributors who provide valuable services to the
Amped Finance ecosystem, who have also staked their AMPED on the platform,
may be eligible to receive a share of the platform\'s reward pool
(funded by fee revenue) as compensation. This mechanism will be
structured to incentivize active participation and reward valuable
contributions to the growth and maintenance of the Amped Finance
platform, for example liquidity provision, governance participation and
engaging in trades or participating in platform campaigns, referral
programs, sharing a tweet. We may also explore implementing an
auto-compounding version of AMPED which receives automatically distributed
rewards. Specific criteria and allocation mechanisms for this model will
be detailed in future governance proposals.

### **Token Supply and Distribution**

AMPED\'s total supply and distribution were determined at launch. A
portion of supply is allocated to the community and liquidity mining (to
fund esAMP rewards), a portion to the team/early supporters with
lockups, and some for treasury or ecosystem growth. The emission of
esAMP that later vests into AMPED means the circulating supply increases
gradually, but this is balanced by the fact that most rewards start as
escrowed (non-circulating). The design is such that emissions are
sustainable relative to the protocol\'s fee generation.

### **esAMP and Vesting**

esAMP is an important part of the token\'s utility cycle. When a user
earns esAMP (through staking AMPED or ALP), they face a decision: continue
staking it for yield/additional utilities or begin vesting it to turn
into AMPED. Vesting typically requires locking the esAMP for a fixed
duration during which the esAMP slowly converts to AMPED. This ensures
that those who receive rewards are committed to the protocol for the
long haul and prevents an oversupply of AMPED hitting the market at once.

## **AI Enhancements (Future Upgrades)**

Amped distinguishes itself from other GMX-style forks by its strong
focus on integrating artificial intelligence (AI) into the platform\'s
functionality. While these AI-enhanced features are planned as future
upgrades, they form a core part of Amped\'s long-term value proposition.
The two primary domains where AI will augment the Amped platform are
liquidity pool management and user-side trading agents.

### **AI-Powered Liquidity Management**

Amped intends to leverage AI to actively manage and optimize the ALP
liquidity pools across chains. Key aspects include:

**Dynamic Asset Rebalancing:** An AI model can monitor factors like
asset price volatility, open interest on various trade positions, and
external market indicators to recommend or automatically execute
adjustments to the composition of the ALP pool. By doing so, the pool
can maintain a healthier risk profile and potentially improve fee
earnings. The system will feature AI-powered yield analysis across
chains and a gas-aware rebalancing engine to optimize yields for LPs.

**Cross-Chain Vault Optimization:** As Amped operates on multiple
networks, an AI system can compare conditions across chains and allocate
resources accordingly. If trading volumes are higher on one network\'s
ALP, the AI might flag that as an opportunity to reallocate liquidity.
The ultimate goal is an automated yield optimizer that treats all Amped
deployments as part of one meta-pool.

**Risk Management and Market Prediction:** By incorporating machine
learning models trained on historical data, Amped\'s AI could forecast
market stress or unusual trading activity and adjust protocol parameters
proactively. This predictive analytics capability adds a layer of
defense and efficiency that goes beyond static configurations.

### **Automated Trading Agents (Amped Agents)**

On the trader side, Amped is developing AI-driven trading agents --
essentially customizable bots or assistants that can help manage user
positions and strategies. Here\'s what users can expect:

**Agent-Guided Trading Strategies:** Users will be able to deploy AI
agents linked to their accounts, which can execute trading strategies on
their behalf. These agents will use real-time market data and complex
algorithms to make trading decisions within parameters set by the user.
This effectively brings quant-style automated trading to retail users in
a simplified form.

**Customizable Parameters and AI Tuning:** The Amped Agent system aims
to let users tailor the AI to their needs -- choosing risk tolerance,
preferred assets, time horizons, etc. A novice might use a conservative
agent that mostly hedges and protects from downside, whereas an
experienced trader might configure an aggressive agent that scalps
volatility.

**24/7 Monitoring and Automation:** One clear advantage of AI agents is
continuous market surveillance. The agent can watch the markets and a
user\'s positions 24/7, automatically executing stop-loss or take-profit
actions, or even more complex multi-step adjustments if conditions
warrant.

**Educational and Collaborative Aspects:** Amped plans to foster a
community around these AI trading agents. Features like an agent
marketplace for sharing trading strategies are considered. This could
allow users to publish their agent configurations for others to use,
creating a new economy of strategy designers and followers.

**Integration of External AI Tools:** By leveraging external AI
innovations, Amped ensures it\'s at the cutting edge of on-chain AI
agents rather than building entirely from scratch. These integrations
might handle natural language queries or advanced analytics.

### **Timeline and Vision**

The AI features are in active development with a phased approach
planned. Initial integration will focus on basic agent functionality,
followed by more sophisticated features like predictive analytics and
institutional-grade capabilities. If successfully implemented, these AI
enhancements could significantly differentiate Amped from other
decentralized exchanges by providing higher and more stable yields for
LPs and automated trading capabilities for users.

## **Roadmap**

Amped\'s development roadmap lays out a trajectory of continuous
improvement, feature expansion, and multi-chain growth.

### **Past Milestones (Q4 2023 -- Q1 2024)**

**Launch and Foundation:** Amped Finance launched on efficient Layer-2
networks, introducing its core perpetual and spot trading features.
Essential features like market and limit orders for swaps, high-leverage
perpetuals, and staking interfaces for AMPED and ALP were activated.

**Security and Audits:** Comprehensive security audits were completed by
reputable firms, with any findings addressed before deployment.
Monitoring systems and bug bounty programs were established.

### **Recent Development (Q2 -- Q4 2024)**

**Liquidity Expansion:** Efforts were made to grow ALP liquidity through
various incentives and partnerships.

**Multichain Research and Integrations:** Integration with additional
blockchain networks was undertaken, involving contract adaptations,
oracle securing, and ecosystem partnerships. Cross-chain bridge
collaborations were initiated for seamless user transfers.

**UX Refinements:** Ongoing feedback led to iterative UI improvements,
including advanced charting, better analytics, and educational resources
to prepare for more complex features.

### **Current Phase (Q1 2025)**

**Multi-Chain Expansion:** Official expansion to multiple blockchain
networks, each with dedicated ALP pools and asset support. Liquidity
bootstrapping programs accompany these launches.

**AI & Agent Development Foundation:** Initial development of AI
features began, including basic agentic endpoints and integration with
AI frameworks. Agent toolkit development commenced, laying groundwork
for major agent launches.

**Protocol Improvements:** General protocol enhancements including
multi-chain UI support, expanded documentation, and improved user
accessibility.

### **Near-Term Goals (Q2 2025)**

**Amped Agent Launch:** Rollout of AI trading bot features with in-app
interfaces for creating and activating agents. Core functionality
includes position management via AI with preset agent templates for
different strategies.

**User Experience Upgrades:** Significant UI/UX overhauls to consolidate
multi-chain access, AI agent controls, and standard trading interfaces.
Personalizable dashboards and educational resources will be introduced.

### **Medium-Term Objectives (Q3 2025)**

**AI-Driven Cross-Chain Yield Optimization:** Implementation of
sophisticated cross-chain vault rebalancing systems with AI-powered
yield analysis and gas-aware engines for optimal LP returns.

**Advanced Agent Capabilities:** Enhancement of Amped Agents with
predictive analytics, institutional-grade features, and improved
strategy customization options.

**Comprehensive UX Overhaul:** Platform-wide user experience
improvements across web and mobile interfaces with unified asset
management and advanced visualization tools.

**Enhanced Governance:** More decentralized governance mechanisms with
on-chain voting modules and community proposal frameworks.

### **Long-Term Vision (Beyond Q3 2025)**

**Institutional Adoption:** Push for broader adoption with
institutional-grade features, regulatory compliance options, and
advanced auditing tools.

**DeFi Composability Innovation:** Development of collaborative products
and integration opportunities with the broader DeFi ecosystem.

**Community Growth:** Expanded programs including developer grants, user
acquisition incentives, and strategic partnerships to grow the ecosystem
around Amped\'s liquidity and AI capabilities.

## **Security**

Security is of paramount importance to Amped Finance. As a DeFi platform
handling significant user funds and executing complex financial
contracts, Amped employs a multi-layered security strategy.

### **Audited, Proven Codebase**

Amped\'s smart contracts originate from the GMX v1 repository, which has
been extensively audited and battle-tested on mainnet. By starting from
this reliable code foundation and making only minimal necessary
modifications, Amped reduced the risk of introducing new
vulnerabilities. Prior to launch, Amped\'s contracts underwent full
audits by independent security firms. The audit reports confirmed that
the deployed contracts matched the audited code and highlighted no
critical issues. This audit process is repeated for subsequent
deployments and new components.

### **Open Source Transparency**

Amped maintains an open-source approach -- its smart contract code is
published and verified on blockchain explorers for each deployment. This
transparency allows the community and security researchers to inspect
the code. Amped encourages community audits and feedback, sometimes
offering bug bounties to white-hat hackers who might discover issues.

### **Security Features Inherited from GMX**

The platform retains GMX\'s robust security features:

**Capped Asset Exposure:** ALP\'s asset weights and composition are
controlled so that the pool isn\'t overexposed to any single asset or
directional risk. Dynamic fee adjustments help prevent catastrophic
losses from any single asset\'s collapse.

**Trustless Oracles:** Amped uses decentralized price oracles to feed
tamper-resistant price data into the contracts. Prices are typically
aggregated from many sources and include mechanisms to prevent the use
of stale or manipulated prices.

**Collateral and Liquidation Mechanisms:** All leveraged positions are
over-collateralized, and the protocol has clear rules for margin
maintenance. If a position\'s collateral value falls too low,
liquidation can be triggered automatically, ensuring the ALP pool
maintains solvency.

**Reentrancy and Access Control:** Standard security practices like
reentrancy guards are in place. Critical functions can only be called by
authorized addresses, and the platform uses time locks for significant
governance changes.

### **yALP Vault Security**

The yALP vault incorporates several security considerations:

**Dilution Protection:** The vault calculates share issuance based on
the vault state before a deposit, preventing attacks where exploiters
rapidly deposit right before compounding events.

**Cooldown Respect:** The vault respects underlying cooldown periods,
preventing users from circumventing system protections.

**Comprehensive Testing:** Extensive testing was performed in simulation
and on testnets under various scenarios before deployment.

### **Ongoing Monitoring and Risk Management**

Amped has infrastructure in place for real-time platform monitoring:

**Position and Liquidity Monitoring:** The team monitors large trader
positions and overall open interest, with ability to intervene via
governance if needed.

**Alert Systems:** Automated alerts detect unusual activities that could
indicate ongoing attacks or anomalies, enabling swift response.

**Bug Bounty Programs:** Programs encourage security researchers to
report vulnerabilities in exchange for rewards, incentivizing ethical
disclosure.

### **Upgrades and Governance Security**

When introducing new features, Amped follows a cautious approach:

**Modular Deployment:** New smart contracts are usually deployed as
separate modules, limiting the blast radius of potential bugs.

**Multi-sig and Timelocks:** Upgradability is managed via
multi-signature wallets and timelocks, ensuring transparency and
community review opportunities.

**Transparent Governance:** All governance actions affecting user funds
can be subject to time-locked execution or direct user voting.

### **Security Summary**

Amped\'s approach minimizes novel attack surface by using proven
components and standards, thoroughly auditing and testing any new code,
and maintaining vigilance through monitoring and community involvement.
The emphasis on building upon proven infrastructure ensures that each
new addition builds on an already secure core rather than replacing it.
Users can take confidence in the fact that Amped\'s contracts have been
reviewed comprehensively and that the protocol\'s economic design has
been modeled and tested against various attack scenarios.

Security remains an ongoing effort, with the team committed to updating
safeguards as new threats emerge and fostering an open,
security-conscious culture to maintain an impeccable security track
record as the platform scales.

*By integrating cutting-edge features with rigorous security and a clear
roadmap, Amped DeFi aspires to set a new standard for decentralized
perpetual exchanges. This whitepaper has outlined the platform\'s
fundamentals and future plans. Amped stands at the intersection of
reliable DeFi infrastructure and innovative AI-driven services -- a
combination poised to deliver exceptional value to traders, liquidity
providers, and token holders alike. The journey is just beginning, and
the Amped community is invited to participate in governing and growing
this ecosystem into a cornerstone of the DeFi landscape.*
